docs: added operation, TT-matrix and PDE lattice (#92)
wren-projects/pde-solver: docs/main.tex

of neighboring dimensions.

To swap dimensions $k$ and $k+1$:

\begin{enumerate}
  \item Contract the two neighboring cores:
  \[
  T(i_k,i_{k+1})
  =
  G_k(i_k) \, G_{k+1}(i_{k+1})
  \]

  \item Reshape $T$ into a matrix:
  \[
  T \in \mathbb{R}^{(r_{k-1} n_{k+1}) \times (n_k r_{k+1})}
  \]

  \item Compute a truncated SVD:
  \[
  T \approx U \Sigma V^\top
  \]

  \item Reshape $U$ and $V^\top$ into new TT cores:
  \[
  \widetilde{G}_k(i_{k+1}), \quad \widetilde{G}_{k+1}(i_k)
  \]

\end{enumerate}

\paragraph{Remark.}

Mode permutation generally increases TT-ranks before truncation.
Therefore, rounding (\cref{alg:rounding}) is required to maintain
a compact representation.

\paragraph{Complexity.}

A single adjacent swap has complexity
\[
\mathcal{O}(n_k n_{k+1} r^3).
\]

A general permutation requires $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$ such swaps.

\paragraph{Code slot.}
\begin{minted}{python}
# TODO: implement adjacent swap of TT cores
# then compose swaps to achieve general permutation
\end{minted}

%==================================================
\subsection{Tensor contraction (tensordot)}
%==================================================

> \begin{definition}[Tensor contraction in TT format]

Reviewer: There should be a mention somewhere, that the contracted cores should comprise a continuous slice that starts (for B) or ends (for A) with a boundary core. In other cases, the cores have to be permuted into such order first.

Let $A$ and $B$ be TT tensors.

A tensor contraction (tensordot) along selected modes sums over
shared indices of $A$ and $B$.

In the special case where all modes are contracted, this reduces to
the Frobenius inner product:
\[
\langle A,B\rangle =
\sum_{i_1,\dots,i_d}
A(i_1,\dots,i_d)\,B(i_1,\dots,i_d).
\]

\end{definition}

\paragraph{Explanation (informal).}

The contraction is performed sequentially across dimensions.

At each dimension $k$, we combine slices of $A$ and $B$,

> sum over the contracted index, and propagate a small matrix.

Reviewer: Add a note on how the propagation look like.

This avoids forming the full tensors explicitly.

\paragraph{Important note.}

General contractions increase TT-ranks.

> Therefore, rounding (\cref{alg:rounding}) is applied afterward.

Reviewer: Add a note, that this is mostly due to the fact, that we have to permute the cores before performing the dot.

#TODO implement
\end{minted}

%==================================================
\subsection{Element access}
%==================================================

\begin{definition}[Element evaluation]

Let $A$ be a TT tensor with matrix-valued cores
\[
G_k : \{1,\dots,n_k\} \to \mathbb{R}^{r_{k-1}\times r_k}.
\]

The entry
\[
A(i_1,\dots,i_d)
\]
can be computed by sequential multiplication:
\[
v_0 = 1,
\quad
v_k = v_{k-1} G_k(i_k),
\quad
k=1,\dots,d.
\]

Then
\[
A(i_1,\dots,i_d) = v_d.
\]

\end{definition}

\paragraph{Explanation (informal).}

Instead of reconstructing the full tensor, we select one slice from each core
and multiply them from left to right.

Each step propagates a small matrix (or vector), and since $r_0=r_d=1$,
the final result is a scalar.

\paragraph{Complexity.}

If TT-ranks are bounded by $r$, the cost is
\[
\mathcal{O}(d r^2).
\]

\paragraph{Code slot.}
\begin{minted}{python}
# TODO: element access
\end{minted}

> 
> %==================================================
> \subsection{Mode permutation (transpose)}
> %==================================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
%==================================================
\subsection{Mode permutation (transpose)}
\label{sec:mode-permutation}
%==================================================
```

\]

A general permutation requires $\mathcal{O}(d^2)$ such swaps.

\paragraph{Code slot.}
\begin{minted}{python}
# TODO: implement adjacent swap of TT cores
# then compose swaps to achieve general permutation
\end{minted}

%==================================================
\subsection{Tensor contraction (tensordot)}
%==================================================

\begin{definition}[Tensor contraction in TT format]

Let $A$ and $B$ be TT tensors.

A tensor contraction (tensordot) along selected modes sums over
shared indices of $A$ and $B$.

In the special case where all modes are contracted, this reduces to
the Frobenius inner product:
\[
\langle A,B\rangle =
\sum_{i_1,\dots,i_d}
A(i_1,\dots,i_d)\,B(i_1,\dots,i_d).
\]

\end{definition}

\paragraph{Remark (ordering of contracted modes).}

Efficient contraction in TT format requires the contracted modes
to form a contiguous block of TT cores.

More precisely, the contracted cores should appear consecutively
and include a boundary core:
\begin{itemize}
  \item either starting from the first core,
  \item or ending at the last core.
\end{itemize}

If the required contraction does not satisfy this ordering,

> the TT cores must first be permuted (see mode permutation section)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the TT cores must first be permuted (see \cref{sec:mode-permutation})
```
